docs/cmdline-opts/url.md, before:

---
c: Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
Long: url
Arg: <url>
Help: URL to work with
Category: curl
Added: 7.5
Multi: append
See-also:
  - next
  - config
Example:
  - --url $URL
---

# `--url`

Specify a URL to fetch or send data to.

If the given URL is missing a scheme (such as `http://` or `ftp://` etc) curl
guesses which scheme to use based on the hostname. If the outermost subdomain
name matches DICT, FTP, IMAP, LDAP, POP3 or SMTP case insensitively, then that
protocol is used, otherwise it assumes HTTP. Scheme guessing can be avoided by
providing a full URL including the scheme, or disabled by setting a default
protocol, see --proto-default for details.

To control where the contents of a retrieved URL is written instead of the
default stdout, use the --output or the --remote-name options. When retrieving
multiple URLs in a single invoke, each provided URL needs its own dedicated
destination option unless --remote-name-all is used.

On Windows, `file://` accesses can be converted to network accesses by the
operating system.

Commit message:

tool_getparam: make --url support a file with URLs
Mention in the --url documentation.

Test 487 and 488 verify.

docs/cmdline-opts/url.md, after:

---
c: Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
Long: url
Arg: <url/file>
Help: URL(s) to work with
Category: curl
Added: 7.5
Multi: append
See-also:
  - next
  - config
Example:
  - --url $URL
  - --url @file
---

# `--url`

Specify a URL to fetch or send data to.

If the given URL is missing a scheme (such as `http://` or `ftp://` etc) curl
guesses which scheme to use based on the hostname. If the outermost subdomain
name matches DICT, FTP, IMAP, LDAP, POP3 or SMTP case insensitively, then that
protocol is used, otherwise it assumes HTTP. Scheme guessing can be avoided by
providing a full URL including the scheme, or disabled by setting a default
protocol, see --proto-default for details.

To control where the contents of a retrieved URL is written instead of the
default stdout, use the --output or the --remote-name options. When retrieving
multiple URLs in a single invoke, each provided URL needs its own dedicated
destination option unless --remote-name-all is used.

On Windows, `file://` accesses can be converted to network accesses by the
operating system.

Starting in curl 8.13.0, curl can be told to download URLs provided in a text
file, one URL per line. It is done by with `--url @filename`: so instead of a
URL, you specify a filename prefixed with the `@` symbol. It can be told to
load the list of URLs from stdin by providing an argument like `@-`.

When downloading URLs given in a file, it implies using --remote-name for each
provided URL.
